# ACPI DSDT patches for Lecoo Pro 14 (Linux)

🇷🇺 [Russian Readme here](README_RU.md) 🇨🇳 [中文自述](README_ZH.md)

DSDT dump and patch set for **Lecoo Pro 14 (N155A)**.
This patch addresses the following issues:
- Fixes the bug where the laptop reboots instead of powering off in Linux ([Shutdown turns into Reboot](https://4pda.to/forum/index.php?showtopic=1108499&st=3420#entry141777966))..
- Unlocks the **S3 state** (Suspend to RAM), [although it likely does not work on the hardware level](https://4pda.to/forum/index.php?showtopic=1108499&st=3340#entry141732975).
- Fixes **buffer overflow issues** for WMI methods.
- Resolves "ACPI ...device not found" errors during system boot.
- Fixes the "instant wake" issue for the S4 state (hibernation).


### ⚠️ Important

The `acpi_override` file must be loaded **BEFORE** the main initramfs image.

#### ℹ️ Known Limitations and Issues

- **Secure Boot:** This patch will likely not work out-of-the-box if Secure Boot is enabled. Depending on the bootloader used, loading custom ACPI tables under Secure Boot may require complex manual signing and enrollment of your own keys or files modification in critical partitions. It is highly recommended that you disable Secure Boot to use this patch to avoid system down by misconfiguration. You will need to resolve any issues or errors that arise during the configuration process yourself.

- **TPM 2.0:** This patch may prevent fTPM from being detected by the Linux kernel's built-in drivers (Device `/dev/tpm0` or `/dev/tpmrm0` will report a timeout in dmesg). This will result in a 90-second delay to boot time. For now, the only solution is to disable the TPM in the BIOS. If you are already using TPM-related features such as the automatic unlocking of LUKS partitions, it is not recommended that you use this patch. However, PRs are welcomed if you have found another solution. (See [the issue #3](https://github.com/LaVashikk/lecoo-linux-acpi-fix/issues/3) for the reference)

## Preparation

1. Download the **`acpi_override.cpio`** file from the [Releases](https://github.com/LaVashikk/lecoo-linux-acpi-fix/releases) section.
2. Copy it to the root of your boot partition (usually `/boot`).

```bash
sudo cp acpi_override.cpio /boot/

```

Next, follow the instructions for your specific bootloader.



## Method 1: Systemd-boot (Arch, Pop!_OS)

1. Locate your bootloader configuration file. It is usually found in `/boot/loader/entries/` and has a `.conf` extension (e.g., `arch.conf` or `linux.conf`).
2. Open it for editing:
```bash
sudo nano /boot/loader/entries/arch.conf
```

3. Add the line `initrd /acpi_override.cpio` **BEFORE** the main initramfs line.
**Example of how it should look:**
```text
title   Arch Linux
linux   /vmlinuz-linux
initrd  /acpi_override.cpio      # <-- override MUST be first!!
initrd  /initramfs-linux.img
options root=UUID=... rw
```

4. Save the file (`Ctrl+O`, `Enter`) and close it (`Ctrl+X`).
5. Done. Reboot.

## Method 2: GRUB (Ubuntu, Fedora, etc.)

For GRUB, it is better to use a special variable so the settings persist after kernel updates.

1. Open the GRUB configuration file:
```bash
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```

2. Find the `GRUB_EARLY_INITRD_LINUX_CUSTOM` variable.
* **If it exists:** Add our file to it.
* **If it doesn't exist:** Add the line to the end of the file:


```bash
GRUB_EARLY_INITRD_LINUX_CUSTOM="acpi_override.cpio"
```
*(Note: The path is relative to the /boot root. If it doesn't work, try `"/boot/acpi_override.cpio"`).*

3. Update the GRUB configuration:
* **Arch Linux:**
```bash
sudo grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

* **Ubuntu/Debian:**
```bash
sudo update-grub
```

## Method 3: Limine Bootloader (CachyOS, Arch, etc.)

Make sure `limine-dracut-support` or `limine-mkinitcpio-hook` installed in your system. 
1. Locate and open the Limine configuration file. It is usually found in the `/boot/limine.conf`.
2. Find your main boot entry (usually the first one) and add a new `module_path` line for the patch before initramfs. Here we will use CachyOS as an example:

```conf
/+CachyOS
  //linux-cachyos
  ### This kernel entry is auto-generated by limine-entry-tool
  comment: Kernel version: X.X.X.X-X-cachyos
  comment: kernel-id=linux-cachyos
  protocol: linux
  module_path: boot():/acpi_override.cpio   # <-- Add your new module path here， "boot():/" means root of boot partition.
  module_path: boot():/(random path)/linux-cachyos/initramfs-linux-cachyos#{HASH}
  path: boot():/(random path)/linux-cachyos/vmlinuz-linux-cachyos#{HASH}
  cmdline: quiet nowatchdog splash rw rootflags=subvol=/@ root=UUID=XXX
```
3. Save the file and Reboot and check everything is working correctly. 
4. If everything is working correctly, you can modify the KERNEL_CMDLINE in `/etc/default/limine` to ensure that the patch remains applied after the kernel is updated.
```text
# Add the patch path as an initrd to the line beginning; the hooks will automatically convert it to a module_path when updating the bootloader.
# “[default]” means that the parameters will be applied to all installed kernels. 
# If you only wish to apply it to a specific kernel, you can change it to the name of the corresponding boot entry, such as “linux-cachyos”.
                          ↓  
KERNEL_CMDLINE[default]+="initrd=/acpi_override.cpio quiet nowatchdog splash rw rootflags=subvol=/@ root=UUID=XXX"
```
5. Run `sudo limine-update` to apply the changes.

<details>
    <summary>Configure the patch for using with Secure Boot (For advanced users)</summary>
  
In order to use this patch with Secure Boot, a custom secure key must be written to the firmware. The following steps usually only need to be done once:

> This section is based on the information from [CachyOS Secure Boot Setup Guide](https://wiki.cachyos.org/configuration/secure_boot_setup/#enabling-setup-mode-in-uefi) and [ArchWiki - Limine](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Limine). We recommend reading them before carrying out the actual setup.

<details>
<summary>See the steps</summary>

Make sure the Secure Boot has been **disabled** before doing the configuration.
1. Boot to BIOS Setup and locate `Security > Secure Boot > Expert Key Management > Factory Key Provision`. Set this to `Disable` and then press F4 to save and reboot.
2. Go back to BIOS Setup and locate `Security > Secure Boot > Reset to Setup Mode`, then select "Yes". The BIOS Secure Boot Module should be in Setup mode now.
3. Boot into the system and check whether sbctl is installed. If not, install it using the following commands:
```
sudo pacman -S sbctl
```
4. Run `sudo sbctl status` to check whether Secure Boot has actually entered Setup Mode.
5. Create the keys by running `sudo sbctl create-keys`.
6. Enroll the new keys in EFI by running `sudo sbctl enroll-keys --microsoft --firmware-builtin`.
7. Run `sudo sbctl status` again to check that the keys have been installed successfully.
8. Change the following settings to yes in the `/etc/default/limine` file to enable automatic checksum enrollment:
```
ENABLE_ENROLL_LIMINE_CONFIG=yes
```
9. Use the above steps to add `KERNEL_CMDLINE` for the patch.
10. Generate BLAKE2B checksums for extra wallpapers and modules since they are not signed by default, then add them to Limine configuration file, remembering to put a `#` before checksums: 
```
sudo b2sum /boot/limine-splash.png | cut -d' ' -f1
```
```
sudo b2sum /boot/acpi_override.cpio | cut -d' ' -f1
```
```
# /boot/limine.conf
wallpaper: boot():/limine-splash.png#{YOUR HASH}

module_path: boot():/acpi_override.cpio#{YOUR HASH}
```
**WARNING: Wrong checksum will make the bootloader panic!!** Limine only needs to sign its EFI binaries itself to boot with Secure Boot, other files are being checked inside the bootloader. Therefore, all you need to do is make sure the BLAKE2B checksums for all the module files in the Limine configuration are correct.

11. Save the file and run `sudo limine-enroll-config` and `sudo limine-update` to write the configuration to the bootloader.
12. Open `/boot/limine.conf` to check if every module has a BLAKE2B checksum.
13. Reboot to BIOS, enable Secure Boot then reboot again to check everything is working correctly. If the patch needs updating, you will need to add the new checksum to the configuration file yourself, following steps 10 and 11.
</details>

</details>


## How to verify the patch is working

After rebooting, open a terminal and run:

```bash
sudo dmesg | grep ACPI | grep override
```

You should see lines similar to:

```text
ACPI: Table Upgrade: override [DSDT-ALASKA-  A M I ]
ACPI: DSDT 0x00000000969E3000 Physical table override, new table: 0x000000009B5A5000
```

If these lines are present, the patch has been applied successfully. Try shutting down the laptop to test the fix.

## License

ACPI tables are the property of their respective owners. Modifications are provided for interoperability/repair purposes only.
